Add `osu!taiko World Cup 2026: Quarterfinals Recap` news post (#14607)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2026/2026-04-09-osutaiko-world-cup-2026-quarterfinals-recap.md

---
layout: post
title: "osu!taiko World Cup 2026: Quarterfinals Recap"
date: 2026-04-10 22:00:00 +0000
series: world_cups
---

Lots of matches, lots of maps and lots of exciting moments during the osu!taiko World Cup 2026 Quarterfinals. Read on to find out everything you need to know about what happened last weekend.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2026-04-09-osutaiko-world-cup-2026-quarterfinals-recap/banner.jpg)

> Spectators were treated to lively and entertaining matches between the top teams this game mode has to offer. The Quarterfinals held a total of 16 matches and both strong and weaker players alike were able to show off their impressive skills.

Reviewer: Mentioning 'weaker players' at all seems a bit odd, maybe something like 'the strongest players from all over the world' would be better?

Author: yeah felt weird true

## Mappool showcase

**[Download the mappool here! (104 MB)](https://packs.ppy.sh/P318%20-%20osu!taiko%20World%20Cup%202026%3A%20Quarterfinals.zip?1775107454)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?autoplay=false&parent=osu.ppy.sh&video=2734988514" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

> ![Round of 16 mappool table](/wiki/shared/news/2026-04-09-osutaiko-world-cup-2026-quarterfinals-recap/pool-qf.jpg)

Reviewer: Round of 16 text here (as opposed to Quarterfinals) doesn't seem to be visible anywhere but might as well keep it right

Author: yeap replaced with qf alt text

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/407/Songs/Cansol_-_Jazz_Invasion.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

Well-known producer from multiple osu! World Cups and osu! featured artist [Cansol](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/407) returns with a newly produced song for the osu!taiko World Cup 2026. [Jazz Invasion](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530688#taiko/5593650) combines 178 beats per minute with an unique rhythm and a catchy melody. A perfect fit for the Quarterfinals' NM6 slot. Experience the ultimate Jazz Invasion by clicking on the banner and by checking out the showcase video below!

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/y-BsRNpkVUU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2026-04-09-osutaiko-world-cup-2026-quarterfinals-recap/uynet-banner.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530668#taiko/5593610)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/453/Songs/uynet_-_Lunar_Eclipse.mp3"
    </audio>
</div>

> [uynet](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/453), known as an osu! featured artist and for his love for the piano and overwhelmingly cute stuff, returns with a brand new song for the osu!taiko World Cup 2026. Energitic and upbeat with a catchy melody, [Lunar Eclipse](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530668#taiko/5593610) is the most recent addition to his featured artist listing and the HR2 slot of the Quarterfinals pool in the osu!taiko World Cup 2026. For anyone who missed the showcase, we present the video below!

Reviewer: Energitic -> Energetic (idk why i can't just suggest changes more directly today lol)
Also this is kinda nitpicky but 'catchy melody' is used to describe both originals this week. Not the end of the world but I think we should vary the descriptions a little more for later weeks

Author: improvable still but did something

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2026-04-10-highlight-1-TWC2026QF.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

With ::{ flag=FR }:: [YaniFR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11260982)’s infamous full-singletap playstyle allowing him to be comfortable on the otherwise insane patterns of the ending, he secured one of the craziest-looking FCs of the tournament, and made the difference in a huge win.

Malaysia seemed to get some stability back with a double FC on [uynet - Lunar Eclipse](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530668#taiko/5593610) (HR2), before France secured 3 match points with a close call on [CHON - Splash](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530697#taiko/5593663) (NM2) that came down to a **score difference of 3,234** due to some misses on the final pattern!

> The first map of the comeback would have to be [Curiowave - Ghost In Memory](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530687#taiko/5593649) (NM5), which worked out for Malaysia, followed by France’s final pick of [Mili - Peach Pit and Cyanide](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530705#taiko/5593692) (FM1) where they were broken **by just over 10,000 points**! Suddenly, Malaysia were 1 map away from reaching a tiebreaker that seemed to favour their high skillcap players. The pick of [exnoiz - Chen Man](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530667#taiko/5593609) (NM1) came without hesitation, and Malaysia’s strong accuracy kept them in the driver’s seat. France would need a miracle to avoid a TB situation.

Reviewer: With a prior sentence removed from the initial draft I think 'Malaysia's comeback' becomes better than 'the comeback' here (then 'worked out for Malaysia' could become 'worked out for them' or something to avoid repeating the name a lot?)

Author: thx

---
layout: post
title: "osu!taiko World Cup 2026: Quarterfinals Recap"
date: 2026-04-10 22:00:00 +0000
series: world_cups
---

Lots of matches, lots of maps and lots of exciting moments during the osu!taiko World Cup 2026 Quarterfinals. Read on to find out everything you need to know about what happened last weekend.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2026-04-09-osutaiko-world-cup-2026-quarterfinals-recap/banner.jpg)

Spectators were treated to lively and entertaining matches between the top teams this game mode has to offer. The Quarterfinals held a total of 16 matches and the strongest players from all over the world were able to show off their impressive skills.

## Mappool showcase

> 

Reviewer 2: missing some styling here to make the audio player full-width

```suggestion

<style>
    .osu-md--news .audio-player {
        max-width: inherit;
    }
</style>

```

**[Download the mappool here! (104 MB)](https://packs.ppy.sh/P318%20-%20osu!taiko%20World%20Cup%202026%3A%20Quarterfinals.zip?1775107454)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?autoplay=false&parent=osu.ppy.sh&video=2734988514" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

![Quarterfinals mappool table](/wiki/shared/news/2026-04-09-osutaiko-world-cup-2026-quarterfinals-recap/pool-qf.jpg)

## osu! originals

Two more new songs have been produced for the osu!taiko World Cup 2026. Read on to find out more about them and give their respective maps a try by clicking on the banners below!

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2026-04-09-osutaiko-world-cup-2026-quarterfinals-recap/cansol-banner.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530688#taiko/5593650)

> <div class="osu-md__paragraph">

Reviewer 2: if we're showcasing videos, then there's no point in having a banner. the graphic is shown twice here, once for the banner and a second time for the thumbnail

Author: rewritten and removed banners

    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/407/Songs/Cansol_-_Jazz_Invasion.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

> Producer [Cansol](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/407), who has released songs for other World Cup iterations in the past, returns with a newly produced osu! original for the osu!taiko World Cup 2026. [Jazz Invasion](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530688#taiko/5593650) combines 178 beats per minute with an unique rhythm and a catchy melody. A perfect fit for the Quarterfinals' NM6 slot. Experience the ultimate Jazz Invasion by clicking on the banner to check out the map by [Nurend](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9905079) and [uone](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5321719) and by checking out the showcase video below!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Producer [Cansol](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/407), who has released songs for other World Cup iterations in the past, returns with a new osu! original for the osu!taiko World Cup 2026. [Jazz Invasion](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530688#taiko/5593650) combines 178 beats per minute with a unique rhythm and a catchy melody, making for a perfect fit for the Quarterfinals' NM6 slot. Experience the ultimate *Jazz Invasion* by clicking on the banner (or viewing the video below) to check out the map by [Nurend](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9905079) and [uone](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5321719)!
```

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/y-BsRNpkVUU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2026-04-09-osutaiko-world-cup-2026-quarterfinals-recap/uynet-banner.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530668#taiko/5593610)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/453/Songs/uynet_-_Lunar_Eclipse.mp3"
    </audio>
</div>

> [uynet](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/453), known as an osu! featured artist and for his love for the piano and overwhelmingly cute stuff, returns with a brand new song for the osu!taiko World Cup 2026. [Lunar Eclipse](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530668#taiko/5593610) is the most recent addition to his featured artist listing and the HR2 slot in the Quarterfinals pool mapped by [X a v y](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3738344) and [5_5](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6853438). For anyone who missed the showcase, we present the video below!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[uynet](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/453), known for being a Featured Artist and for loving the piano and overwhelmingly cute stuff, returns with a brand-new song for the osu!taiko World Cup 2026. [Lunar Eclipse](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530668#taiko/5593610) is the most recent addition to his Featured Artist listing and the HR2 slot in the Quarterfinals pool mapped by [X a v y](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3738344) and [5_5](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6853438). For anyone who missed the showcase, we present the video below!
```

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lPRDPSB5Nj0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

## Quarterfinals results

> The quarterfinals concluded with a total of 16 matches, with each team trying their best to outscore their opponents. Here are their results laid out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Quarterfinals concluded with a total of 16 matches, with each team trying their best to outscore their opponents. Here are their results laid out.
```

| 29 | **Japan** ::{ flag=JP }:: | **6** | 1 | ::{ flag=TW }:: Taiwan | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/120873120) | [#1](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2740408698) |
| 26a | **New Zealand** ::{ flag=NZ }:: | **6** | 0 | ::{ flag=ID }:: Indonesia | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/120873992) | [#1](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2740491526) |
| 27a | **United Kingdom** ::{ flag=GB }:: | **6** | 2 | ::{ flag=FR }:: France | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/120874303) | [#1](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2740515648) |
| 28b | **Australia** ::{ flag=AU }:: | **6** | 0 | ::{ flag=PT }:: Portugal | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/120874351) | [#1](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2740517105) |
| 25a | **Finland** ::{ flag=FI }:: | **6** | 4 | ::{ flag=RU }:: Russian Federation | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/120874845) | [#1](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2740575347) |
| 31 | **Chile** ::{ flag=CL }:: | **6** | 2 | ::{ flag=CN }:: China | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/120874995) | [#1](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2740582571) |

> Despite their efforts, a few teams have been unfortunately eliminated from the tournament. We still want to give them a special shoutout and we hope to see them return next year: ::{ flag=PT }:: Portugal, ::{ flag=DE }:: Germany, ::{ flag=VN }:: Vietnam, ::{ flag=SE }:: Sweden, ::{ flag=NO }:: Norway, ::{ flag=SK }:: Slovakia, ::{ flag=MY }:: Malaysia, ::{ flag=NL }:: The Netherlands, ::{ flag=RU }:: Russian Federation, ::{ flag=CA }:: Canada, ::{ flag=ID }:: Indonesia and ::{ flag=FR }:: France.

Reviewer 2: first one is pedantic
for the flag one you can compare `grep -iR ':: united states' news | wc -l` with `grep -iR ':: the united states' news | wc -l`

```suggestion
Despite their efforts, a few teams have unfortunately been eliminated from the tournament. We still want to give them a special shout-out and we hope to see them return next year: ::{ flag=PT }:: Portugal, ::{ flag=DE }:: Germany, ::{ flag=VN }:: Vietnam, ::{ flag=SE }:: Sweden, ::{ flag=NO }:: Norway, ::{ flag=SK }:: Slovakia, ::{ flag=MY }:: Malaysia, the ::{ flag=NL }:: Netherlands, ::{ flag=RU }:: Russian Federation, ::{ flag=CA }:: Canada, ::{ flag=ID }:: Indonesia and ::{ flag=FR }:: France.
```

## Match highlights

### ::{ flag=FR }:: France vs. ::{ flag=MY }:: Malaysia

**[View the match information here!](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/120867600)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?autoplay=false&parent=osu.ppy.sh&video=2739798373" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

> This week's lower bracket was brutal, with this year's 2v2 format allowing many teams to keep up with the harder Quarterfinals pool and really test each other in a variety of ways. France (#21), finding themselves in a rough spot with the 2 highest-seeded lower bracket teams in their way, would need to dig deep to reach Semifinals for a fourth straight year, with their first test being a formidable Malaysia (#9).

Reviewer 2: consistency

```suggestion
This week's lower bracket was brutal, with this year's 2v2 format allowing many teams to keep up with the harder Quarterfinals pool and really test each other in a variety of ways. France (#21), finding themselves in a rough spot with the two highest-seeded lower bracket teams in their way, would need to dig deep to reach Semifinals for a fourth straight year, with their first test being a formidable Malaysia (#9).
```

> France won the roll and jumped straight into the popular osu!original pick of [Cansol - Jazz Invasion](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530688#taiko/5593650) (NM6), showing their mechanics prowess by coming painfully close to **a team-wide full combo** on the tricky speedtech map.

Reviewer 2: branding

```suggestion
France won the roll and jumped straight into the popular osu! original pick of [Cansol - Jazz Invasion](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530688#taiko/5593650) (NM6), showing their mechanics prowess by coming painfully close to **a team-wide full combo** on the tricky speedtech map.
```

> Malaysia picked [Azumalim - Jinrui Mina Senpai! (Mtell & Ange;art Hardcore Bootleg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1133749#taiko/2367712) (DT2), but a stellar performance from France, headed by  ::{ flag=FR }:: [Ranshi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6680785)'s 99.5% FC, landed them a break point and a 3-1 lead! France’s pick of [Hyparpax - depth meter](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530720#taiko/5593723) (FM3) saw all four players running the dangerous HDHR mod combo, and looked lost towards the end with Malaysia sitting on very high accuracy… then the ending streams commenced.

Reviewer 2: literally unreadable

```suggestion
Malaysia picked [Azumalim - Jinrui Mina Senpai! (Mtell & Ange;art Hardcore Bootleg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1133749#taiko/2367712) (DT2), but a stellar performance from France, headed by ::{ flag=FR }:: [Ranshi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6680785)'s 99.5% FC, landed them a break point and a 3-1 lead! France's pick of [Hyparpax - depth meter](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530720#taiko/5593723) (FM3) saw all four players running the dangerous HDHR mod combo, and looked lost towards the end with Malaysia sitting on very high accuracy… then the ending streams commenced.
```

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2026-04-10-highlight-1-TWC2026QF.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

> With ::{ flag=FR }:: [YaniFR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11260982)'s infamous full-singletap playstyle allowing him to be comfortable on the otherwise insane patterns of the ending, he secured one of the craziest-looking FCs of the tournament, and made the difference in a huge win.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With ::{ flag=FR }:: [YaniFR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11260982)'s infamous full single-tap play style allowing him to be comfortable on the otherwise insane patterns of the ending, he secured one of the craziest-looking FCs of the tournament, and made the difference in a huge win.
```

Malaysia seemed to get some stability back with a double FC on [uynet - Lunar Eclipse](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530668#taiko/5593610) (HR2), before France secured 3 match points with a close call on [CHON - Splash](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530697#taiko/5593663) (NM2) that came down to a **score difference of 3,234** due to some misses on the final pattern!

> The first map of Malaysia's comeback would have to be [Curiowave - Ghost In Memory](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530687#taiko/5593649) (NM5), which worked out for them, followed by France’s final pick of [Mili - Peach Pit and Cyanide](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530705#taiko/5593692) (FM1) where they were broken **by just over 10,000 points**! Suddenly, Malaysia were 1 map away from reaching a tiebreaker that seemed to favour their high skillcap players. The pick of [exnoiz - Chen Man](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530667#taiko/5593609) (NM1) came without hesitation, and Malaysia's strong accuracy kept them in the driver's seat. France would need a miracle to avoid a TB situation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Malaysia seemed to get some stability back with a double FC on [uynet - Lunar Eclipse](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530668#taiko/5593610) (HR2), before France secured three match points with a close call on [CHON - Splash](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530697#taiko/5593663) (NM2) that came down to a **score difference of 3,234** due to some misses on the final pattern!

The first map of Malaysia's comeback would have to be [Curiowave - Ghost In Memory](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530687#taiko/5593649) (NM5), which worked out for them, followed by France's final pick of [Mili - Peach Pit and Cyanide](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530705#taiko/5593692) (FM1) where they were broken **by just over 10,000 points**! Suddenly, Malaysia was one map away from reaching a tiebreaker that seemed to favour their high-skill-cap players. The pick of [exnoiz - Chen Man](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530667#taiko/5593609) (NM1) came without hesitation, and Malaysia's strong accuracy kept them in the driver's seat. France would need a miracle to avoid a tiebreaker situation.
```

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2026-04-10-highlight-2-TWC2026QF.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

> And a miracle is exactly what they got. With this **137-point stunner**, France won 6-4, pulling off an enormous upset over Malaysia and advancing to the top 16 to face the United Kingdom (#10) the following day. They would lose that one 6-3 and end their streak of TWC top 12 finishes, but France can stand tall, having produced yet another slice of magic in the lower bracket this year.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And a miracle is exactly what they got. With this **137-point stunner**, France won 6–4, pulling off an enormous upset over Malaysia and advancing to the top 16 to face the United Kingdom (#10) the following day. They would lose that one 6–3 and end their streak of TWC top 12 finishes, but France can stand tall, having produced yet another slice of magic in the lower bracket this year.
```

## Score highlights

> - This week's NM2, [CHON - Splash](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530697#taiko/5593663), was one of the hardest accuracy tests in recent history. When we say it has multiple BPM changes per second, we’re not joking! For Indonesia's ::{ flag=ID }:: [-Sera](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6048245), though, this was just another tech pick to shine on. He stunned everyone with a 99.9% full combo against Slovakia, then proved it wasn't a fluke with a 99.85% FC the next day against New Zealand. These were the top 2 scores of the weekend on a map contested by many top teams!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- This week's NM2, [CHON - Splash](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2530697#taiko/5593663), was one of the hardest accuracy tests in recent history. When we say it has multiple BPM changes per second, we're not joking! For Indonesia's ::{ flag=ID }:: [-Sera](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6048245), though, this was just another tech pick to shine on. He stunned everyone with a 99.9% full combo against Slovakia, then proved it wasn't a fluke with a 99.85% FC the next day against New Zealand. These were the top two scores of the weekend on a map contested by many top teams!
```

---

> And that's a wrap for the Quarterfinals recap! We strongly suggest keeping up with matches as we enter the Semifinals by staying tuned to the [osulive](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive) and [osulive_2](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive_2) channels.

Reviewer 2: all paragraphs need blank lines between them

```suggestion
And that's a wrap for the Quarterfinals recap! We strongly suggest keeping up with matches as we enter the Semifinals by staying tuned to the [osulive](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive) and [osulive_2](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive_2) channels.

```
